hello welcome back to another video i
hope you are having a
lovely day so far in this video i am
going to explain
how i managed to lower my body fat
literally
the one thing that has made it so much
easier for me and sustainable
which is walking which honestly if i
have told myself even this a year ago i
just kind of thought
what is the point in walking like it
doesn't really burn that many calories
compared to
like higher intensity stuff such as hit
you know sprinting
anything super high intensity cardio
which is completely true you do not burn
as much calories walking
however walking is so much more easier
and
sustainable and really easy to just add
into your lifestyle
so of course the main reason why walking
is effective for lowering your body fat
is just because it burns calories and
means you can create a calorie deficit
which is why you are burning
more than you are consuming in order to
lose weight now
calories for each person are completely
different this is like dependent on your
gender
your genes like your daily activity
levels so you can never it's not like a
one size fits all by any means
whilst wrong calories like obviously you
need to make sure you're in a calorie
deficit i've done that by
calculating my macros and suiting that
to myself my
main form of training is progressive
resistance training so what has really
helped me
to sort of lean out and all of that is
progressive resistance training
having a good quality diet so like
making sure i've got all my whole foods
in there
focusing on recovery and sleep which
is really really important as well but
obviously the main thing overall is just
making sure like whatever
you add into your lifestyle is
sustainable because it's it's all fun
and easy to just you know do something
for like a week or something
but if it's just unrealistic like it's
just not going to be able to it's not
going to stick the routine's not going
to stick
at all just at the beginning of lockdown
i realized how
stationary i was during the daytime like
majority of the time i would literally
just be sat
at my laptop all day long like editing
doing my emails like doing all my work
stuff
and i'd go to the gym in a morning say
and that would be it for the rest of the
day
uh take penalty on a little bit of what
because she was only
like a tiny little puppy with the
tiniest little legs
she couldn't go for like miles and miles
an end so i was literally averaging 4
000 max
a day step twice and i am someone who
absolutely loved being outdoor but i
think
at that time i was just like really
focused on my work and i quickly
realized oh god i really need to change
this because i'm not
getting like outside enough that kind of
thing i'm not like a naturally lean
person
at all and i remember last year i did my
first like proper cut
and i was doing maybe three to four
times a week like intense cardio so i'd
do
like a hit circuit along with like my
resistance training that kind of thing
i'd grow in the stepper and burn like
three to 400 calories three times a week
but i didn't really find it that
effective but it kind of makes sense
because i wasn't really
properly tracking my calories or macros
in the slightest
and it just was pretty unsuccessful and
i absolutely hated it like i hated
growing the stepper
for like oh god i've gone there like 30
to 40 to an hour
sort of time frame i absolutely hate it
because it was just
painful and i'd always come off there
absolutely shattered with
zero energy like if i did it in the
morning i'd be so tired throughout the
rest of the day
so for me and like my sort of lifestyle
i just didn't find that
effective so moving on to this year when
like lockdown kind of commenced and i
realized that obviously we couldn't go
out at all
so i thought i'll just go on like one
walk a day and i started using
my fitbit which i got as a christmas
present
which is really useful and i just did a
little bit of research and
thought oh just try hitting i think i
started on like 5 000 steps and i
realized oh that was quite easy and
eventually upped it to
10 000 and the difference in my
overall mood everything like it was just
so nice and i started using that time as
like me time so i'd listen to like an
audio book
podcast something like that any form of
cardio is really effective
for weight loss like anything high
intensity such as you know like jogging
hits sprinting stepping machine
absolutely amazing and you can burn a
lot more calories a lot quicker than
walking when i decided to do my cut i
was sort of like planning and
programming for myself that kind of
thing
and i realized like when i did some
research that you can burn around 90
calories like
average per mile which i thought was
pretty
good and considering i absolutely love
walking and obviously
as penalties growing up she can go
further she's got so much fitter
i've got fitter being able to see more
like literally
if you've seen some of my vlogs recently
like i found
places to go on a walk i found a canal
so close to my house i did not even know
existed
i bet you're probably the same that if
you've been walking more in like
throughout the lockdown period and
quarantine and stuff
and with walking you can actually really
intensify like i'm
quite a fast walker like when mason and
i grow out walking together
he's got into it as well i find that i'm
always like quite a bit
i know like i'm like a brisk walker if
you know what i'm saying but you can't
intensify but obviously like going up
hills
going faster slower you know all about
just
whatever it is that gets your heart rate
up a little bit more
than a really slow steady walk and
obviously saves time too what's really
interesting is that muscle
really helps to preserve lean muscle
mass so
it can be quite counterproductive so say
if you are trying to
lower your body fat but you don't want
to lose muscle and then you go do an
absolute turn at killing yourself doing
cardio and
you're in too much of a calorie deficit
to the point where you
lose some of your muscle mass that is
really counterproductive
because muscle is more metabolically
active than fat which means
your muscle helps you to burn more
calories each day last year when i said
when i did my first cut that wasn't
really successful that was just because
i just tried a technique that obviously
didn't suit
me or my lifestyle which was like
intense forms of cardio
which meant obviously i was burning more
calories but i wasn't really enjoying it
and then because i was going so
hard on that blooming stepping machine i
was literally killing myself on there
i'd get home
collapse on my bed then just feel even
more hungry because i've burnt so many
calories and ended up going over on my
calories because i wasn't really keeping
track or anything
obviously doing my weight lifting
resistance training
whilst progressive overloading then
doing some cardio on top
three to four times a week or something
like that i was thinking why am i not
losing weight why do i not have abs that
i'm you know
working for i've just found something
that suits me a lot better which is
walking and doesn't make me as like
ravenous always because i'm not
necessarily burning as many calories as
i was doing the intense forms of cardio
but walking is not half as exhausting i
can maintain it
i sort of do other things whilst i'm
walking i'll take i'll do some like work
calls
i'll listen to an audio book i'll ring
friends or family so i kind of feel like
i'm not really doing it and it's
been so easy to sort of put into my
routine
i actually found mainly in the evenings
have suited me
the the most really because i've managed
to get my gym session in in the morning
got some work done during the day time
and then i'll just go out in an evening
it's so relaxing
i'll usually take pineapple with me and
listen to a book or whatever
just super therapeutic my steps at the
moment are i always aim for ten thousand
six days a week and that takes me about
an hour each day you can do it quicker
if you
walk a bit faster anything like that um
i like mixing up my roots as well yeah
that is just something to implement
obviously you could also do
like walking on a treadmill if that's
more accessible to you or if you've got
treadmill in your house anything like
that i quite like just getting outdoors
that's my favorite way
and just the other thing to mention if
you are like incorporating it i really
just advise to say get a fitness tracker
like an apple watch this is a fitbit
charge three i'll leave it linked down
below
they're not 100 accurate like don't take
it as 100
and none of these trackers are um but
just use it as a bit of a guide and
you'll get like a rough idea
so the next thing to mention which might
be really helpful if you're someone who
you feel like oh god like
i literally couldn't find an hour in the
day so if you've got you're
super super busy um or if you feel like
it's just too much
alongside going to the gym now this is
something called your knee so that's
your non
exercise activity thermogenesis that's
what that stands for
that's a mouthful isn't it which is
literally just the calories you burn
like throughout the day
like outside of the gym stuff like just
cleaning the house like me walking
upstairs now
to get a coffee that are like that build
your overall
calories that you burn in the day
because obviously everything takes
energy
walking upstairs to get a cup of tea
takes energy not that much but
you get a picture um so yeah this is
where you can really increase
your steps so for example some days if i
cut like don't want it if it's raining
or i really don't want to go on a walk
i will clean my whole house and get my
steps up that way like you'll be really
surprised about how
easily buildable it is like just doing
stuff like that especially if you do it
on like give yourself a little time
concentrate that kind of thing
but overall i'm not saying by any means
like there's one specific way of cardio
it's not like a one size fits all but
for me this is the approach that's just
helped me on my journey
and helped me to lower my body fat
without killing myself
doing really really intense cardio i
still love doing like hit training that
kind of thing i've just found this the
most effective
specifically for my cut and most
sustainable enjoyable
and therapeutic actually of all things
so yeah i just want to keep this one
quite sweet and i really hope this is
helpful
definitely one of the most like
frequently asked questions i get about
my recent cutting phase that i've done
so let me know if there's anything else
you want me to cover or
anything you find useful and i will
definitely get that film for you
i really hope you enjoyed this video i
would love it if you
would stick around and subscribe to my
channel and make sure you have liked
this video and i'll see you guys
in the next one
[Music]
you